at the end of every
in years you shall
of deaths and this is the form of the
release every creditor who has lent
anything to his neighbor shall release
it he shall not require it of his
neighbor or his brother because it is
called the Lord's release of a foreigner
you may require it but you shall give up
your claim to what is owed by your
brother except when there may be no poor
among you for the Lord will greatly
bless you in the land which the Lord
your God is giving you to possess as an
inheritance only if you carefully obey
the voice of the Lord your God to
observe with care all these commandments
which I command you today for the Lord
your God will bless you just as he
promised you you shall lend to many
nations but you shall not borrow
you shall reign over many nations but
they shall not reign over you if there
is among you a poor man of your brethren
within any of the gates in your land
which the Lord your God is giving you
you shall not harden your heart nor shut
your hand from your poor brother but you
shall open your hand wide to him and
willingly lend him sufficient for his
need whatever he needs
beware lest there be a wicked thought in
your heart saying the seventh year the
year of release is at hand and your eye
be evil against your poor brother and
you give him nothing and he cry out the
Lord against you and it become sin among
you you shall surely give to him and
your heart should not be grieved when
you give to him because for this thing
the Lord your God will bless you in all
your works
in all through which you put your hand
for the poor will never cease from the
land therefore I command you saying you
shall open your hand wide to your
brother - you're poor and you're needy
in your land if your brother a Hebrew
man or a Hebrew woman is so teen and
serves you six years then in the seventh
year you shall let him go free from you
and when you send him away free from you
you shall not let him go away
empty-handed you shall supply him
liberally from your flock from your
threshing floor and from your winepress
from what the Lord your God has blessed
you with you shall give to him you shall
remember
that you were a slave in the land of
Egypt and the Lord your God redeemed you
therefore I command you this thing today
and if it happens that he says to you I
will not go away from you because he
loves you and your house since he
prosper us with you then you shall take
in all and thrust it through his ear
through the door and he shall be your
servant forever also to your female
servant you shall do likewise it shall
not seem hard to you when you send him
away free from you for he has been worth
a double hired servant in serving you
six years then the Lord your God will
bless you in all that you do all the
firstborn males that come from your herd
and your flock you shall sanctify to the
Lord your God you shall do no work with
the firstborn of your herd nor shear the
firstborn of your flock you and your
household shall eat it before the Lord
your God here my year in the place which
the Lord chooses but if there is a
defect in it
if it is lame or blind or has any
serious defect
you shall not sacrifice it to the Lord
your God you may eat it within your
gates the unclean and the clean person
alike may eat it as if it were a gazelle
or a deer only you shall not eat its
blood you shall pour it on the ground
like water